The data sets consist of SeaFlow-based cell abundance, forward light
scatter, and pigment fluorescence of individual cells, as well as
derived estimates of equivalent spherical diameter (ESD) and cellular
carbon content of picophytoplankton, which includes the cyanobacteria
Prochlorococcus, Synechococcus and small-sized Crocosphaera (\< 5 μm
ESD), and picophytoplankton and nanophytoplankton (2-5 μm ESD). SeaFlow
data were collected in surface waters (≈5 m depth) from oceanographic
cruises carried out across the Northeast Pacific Ocean since 2010. Data
provides high spatial resolution (≈1 km) measurements across ocean
basin, along with near-monthly data at the long-term sampling site
(Station ALOHA) of the Hawaii Ocean Time-Series since 2015. Further
information can be found here: <https://github.com/armbrustlab/popcycle>

# The SeaFlow Instrument

SeaFlow is a new environmental flow cytometer designed by the Armbrust
lab to be deployed on oceanographic research vessels to monitor
continuously photosynthetic microorganisms. Since its first deployment
in 2008, the SeaFlow instrument has collected over 200,000 samples in
surface waters of the North Pacific and Atlantic Ocean. The geographical
distribution of marine phytoplankton, their optical characteristics
(size and pigment content), and their dynamics in relation to
environmental factors are of major interest for the oceanographers.

Unlike a conventional flow cytometer, SeaFlow directly analyzes a raw
stream of seawater using two detectors that determine the position of
the particle in the focal region of the instrument optical system
(Swalwell et al. 2011). With this technology, measurements from
particles that pass through the ideal focal position of the collection
optics can be differentiated from improperly positioned particles,
producing a measurement equivalent to that obtained with a conventional
cytometer (see OPP filtration). The ratio of these optimally positioned
particles (OPP) to the total detectable particles is used to retrieve
the volumetric flow rate, allowing accurate estimation of cell
abundances (see Virtual Core calibration). Each particle is defined by
its light scatter and by two different wavelengths of fluorescence
associated with chlorophyll pigment (690 nm for red fluorescence) and
phycoerythrin pigment (570 nm for orange fluorescence), which allow the
discrimination between cells and detritus or suspended sediments and
between photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic organisms.

Details of the SeaFlow project can be found here:
<https://armbrustlab.ocean.washington.edu/tools/seaflow/>
